docs/Contributors_Guide/documentation.rst, before:

*************
Documentation
*************

Viewing METplus documentation
=============================

The METplus documentation (beginning with version 3.0) is available
`online <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/>`_.


Doxygen Source Code Documentation
=================================

The source code documentation is coming soon.


Documentation Overview and Conventions
======================================

The majority of the documentation is created using the Sphinx documentation
generator tool, which was originally created for Python documentation.
The documentation is created using
`reStructuredText (rst) <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_.
This link provides a brief introduction to reST concepts and syntax, 
intended to give authors enough information to create and modify the 
documents productively. We follow the conventions outlines in the 
link, along with some additional METplus Component specific conventions:

Defining Chapters and Sections
------------------------------

Chapter and section headers are created by underlining 
the section title with one of the below punctuation characters.
This must be EXACTLY as long as the text line or there will be a Github error message:

Here is an example of a chapter title::

  *************
  Chapter Title
  *************
  

Include one line of whitespace below the last line of asterisks or it won't work.

Below is the convention that is used in the Python Developer’s Guide
and METplus::
  
  * with overline, for chapters
  = for sections
  - for subsections (this is a dash, not an underline.)
  ^ for subsubsections
  " for paragraphs (as of yet, this isn't used in the METplus documentation.)
  # with overline, for parts. This can be used for hidden comments in the code.

Items to Bold
-------------

  * To make text bold use 2 asterisks before and after the bold section.
    Example::  
    
      **Bolded text** 
      
  * It will look like this on the web:  **Bolded text**
  * Variables (e.g. **MET_INSTALL_DIR, INPUT_BASE, METCALCPY_HOME**, etc.)
  * Filenames (**line_defaults.yaml, contour_defaults.yaml, defaults.conf**, etc.)

Items in Italics
----------------

  * To italicize text use 1 asterisk before and after the italics section.
    Example::
      
      *Italicized text* 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: *Italicized text*
  * Paths and Directories are italicized.
  * If it is a full path and a file name, use italics. 
    This was used a lot in METplotpy, 
    Example: *$METPLOTPY_SOURCE/METplotpy/test/ens_ss/ens_ss.data* 
  * Italics for values to options.
  
Math equations
--------------
  * use :math:\mathbf
  * Then put what is needed in bolded brackets.
    Example::  
    
      :math:\mathbf **1, 2, 3, 4, ...** :math:`mathbf{2^{n-1}}` 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: **1, 2, 3, 4, ...** :math:`mathbf{2^{n-1}}`
  * `Referencing math equations <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/domains.html#role-math-numref>`_.

Symbols
-------

  * The below will create a Delta triangle symbol:
    Eample:: 
    
      :math:`Delta` 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: :math:`\Delta`

Command Line Command
--------------------

For including commands for a command line, use the “literal block” syntax.
Indent the line two spaces with two colons at the end of the sentence"::", 
one line of white space below that,
two indented spaces, "Write my command here" then one more line of
white space. Example::

  Some text::

    Write my command here
    
    
It will look like this on the web (Please note, this will remove one
of the 2 colons):

  Some text::
  
    Write my command here

Then continue writing on this line. Note there needs to be one line of 
whitespace above and below the command.

Here is some more information on 
`literal blocks <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#literal-blocks>`_

Creating Carriage Returns and New Lines
---------------------------------------

RST does not obey carriage returns. To get text to appear on 
consecutive lines with no whitespace between, use the 
“line block” syntax, which is to prepend each line with 
the “|” symbol. Example::

  This text will
  Be
  Rendered
  All on a single
  Line like this

It will look like this on the web: 
This text will Be Rendered All on a single Line like this

To keep the text on separate lines, use the "|" with a
space at the beginning of each new line.  Example::

  One line of blank space above and below text 
  
  | This text will
  | Be
  | Rendered
  | On separate lines
  | Like this

It will look like this on the web:

  | This text will
  | Be
  | Rendered
  | On separate lines
  | Like this

Here is some more information on `line blocks <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#line-blocks>`_.

Links
-----

Linking to another Section
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The original section being linked to will need an 
".. _pick_a_reference_name" so it can be referenced
in the next section.  Please change the text to something
appropriate.  No spaces are allowed. Example::

  .. _reference_orig_name:
         must have blank line here
  Original Name Section
  ---------------------

To add this link somewhere else use "\:ref:\`reference_orig_name`". 
Please use backticks and note that the first underscore isn't used
in the reference.
Example::

  :ref:`reference_orig_name`

Or to have the (table, figure etc) number used numref will work.
Example::

  :numref:`reference_orig_name`

Here is some more information on 
`Links <https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html>`_

If the link is in another chapter or document, use the example below.
Please note, there is no space between text and the less than symbol "<".
Example:

  :ref:`Text to show up<reference_orig_name>`  LISA fix this, nothing shows up because there is nothing to link to.

Linking to METplus Use Cases (Python code)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Linking to METplus Use Cases must be done with a web link.  
Since the generated html file is from a python script, 
the “\:ref:” command in sphinx can’t be used. 
This example will use this METplus Use Case:
https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html#sphx-glr-generated-met-tool-wrapper-statanalysis-statanalysis-py.  
The full web address is being shown above so it can be edited below.
To make sure the web address is correct:

  * This example will be called "TCStat: Basic Use Case"
  * Remove this front portion from the web address before 
    “generated”: https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest
  * Put a “../” in front of “generated”
  * Also remove anything after “#”.  In this case:  
    #sphx-glr-generated-met-tool-wrapper-statanalysis-statanalysis-py
  * The web link should look like this example::

    `TCStat: Basic Use Case <../generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html>`_
  * It will look like this on the web page:
    `TCStat: Basic Use Case <../generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html>`_

Examples of the links can be seen in this 
`table <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Users_Guide/overview.html#metplus-components-python-requirements>`_ 
in the far right column.


Linking to a table
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is similar to linking to another section.
Example::

  .. _table_name_1:
         (must have blank line here)
  .. list-table:: table name one

Then to reference this table::

  :ref:`table_name_1`
  
This will link to the table.

The web link should look like this: LISA UPDATE THIS

Linking to a variable in the Glossary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this case, "\:term:" is used. This lets Sphinx know
to look for the link in the glossary. Example::

  :term:`VARIABLE_NAME_HERE`

This will link directly to the glossary. Here is some more information on 
`links to a glossary <https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/glossary.html#link-a-term-to-its-a-glossary-entry>`_.

Links to External Web Pages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To link to an external web page, use the following syntax:
`Link text <link_URL>`_  
Example::

  `DTC <https://dtcenter.org/>`_

The web link should look like this: `DTC <https://dtcenter.org/>`_

The link can also be separated from the the target definition. 
Example::

  Get the latest news at `DTC`_.
  .. _DTC: https://dtcenter.org

The web link should look like this:
Get the latest news at `DTC`_.

Sphinx modules
--------------

The following Sphinx modules are required to generate the necessary
documentation:

  * sphinx-gallery==0.11.1
  * sphinx==5.3.0
  * sphinx-rtd-theme==1.2.0
  * sphinx-design==0.3.0

Which versions are being used by the current METplus release can be viewed
by looking at either *METplus/environment.yml* or *METplus/docs/requirements.txt*.  
If the desire is to replicate all the
packages employed by METplus, please refer to :numref:`conda_env` of the
Contributor's Guide.


Description of Documentation Directories
========================================

Core documentation is divided into four sections: User's Guide, Contributor's
Guide, Release Guide, and Verification Datasets Guide all of which reside
under the *METplus/docs* directory and contain files ending in .rst.

Documentation for the use cases is found in the following directories:

* *METplus/docs/use_cases/met_tool_wrapper*

  * This directory contains documentation pertaining to use cases that use
    one MET *tool/METplus* wrapper.

* *METplus/docs/use_cases/model_applications*
	
  * This directory contains documentation pertaining to use cases that are
    based on model data, and utilize more than one MET *tool/METplus*
    wrapper.

Please refer to the :ref:`Document New Use Case <use_case_documentation>`
section for more information on documenting a new use case.


Adding New Documentation
========================

To determine where to add new documentation:

* The User's Guide for any instructions or details that will enable a user
  to run/use the use case and/or new code.

* The Contributor's Guide for instructions on creating/constructing new
  code.

* The Release Guide for instructions for creating software releases for any
  METplus component, including official, bugfix, and development releases.

* The Verification Datasets Guide for any relevant "truth" datasets, including
  data from satellite platforms (geostationary and polar orbiting), gridded
  analyses (global and regional), station or point-based datasets (global and
  regional), and radar networks.


User's Guide:
-------------
  
* To add/modify any content that affects METplus users.
* Modify any of the affected sections from the
  *METplus/docs/Users_Guide* directory:
  
  * **glossary.rst** (Glossary)
  * **references.rst** (Reference)
  * **configuration.rst** (Configuration)
  * **usecases.rst** (Use cases)
  * **wrappers.rst** (METplus wrappers)

Contributor's Guide:
--------------------
  
* To add/modify any content that affects METplus contributors.
* Modify any of the affected sections from the
  *METplus/docs/Contributors_Guide* directory:
  
  * **add_use_case.rst** (How to add new use cases)
  * **basic_components.rst** (The basic components of a METplus wrapper)
  * **coding_standards.rst** (The coding standards currently in use)
  * **conda_env.rst**  (How to set up the conda environment for
    running METplus)
  * **continuous_integration.rst** (How to set up a continuous integration
    workflow)
  * **create_wrapper.rst** (How to create a new METplus wrapper)
  * **deprecation.rst** (What to do to deprecate a variable)
  * **documentation.rst** (Describing the documentation process and files)
  * **github_workflow.rst** (A description of how releases are made,
    how to to obtain source code from the GitHub repository)
  * **index.rst** (The page that shows all the 'chapters/sections'
    of the Contributor's Guide)
  * **testing.rst** (A description of how to set up testing the
    wrapper code)

Release Guide:
--------------

* To add/modify the instructions for creating software releases for
  any METplus component, including official, bugfix, and development
  releases.

* Each METplus component has a top level file (e.g. **metplus.rst**)
  which simply contains references to files for each of the
  releases.  For example, **metplus.rst** contains references to:
    
  * metplus_official.
  * metplus_bugfix.
  * metplus_development.

* Each release file (e.g. **metplus_official.rst**, **metplus_bugfix.rst**,
  **metplus_development.rst**) contains, at a minimum, a replacement
  value for the projectRepo variable and include
  statements for each release step.  These individual steps
  (e.g. **open_release_issue.rst**, **clone_project_repository.rst**, etc.)
  may be common to multiple METplus components.  These common steps
  are located in the *release_steps* directory.  However, a METplus
  component may have different instructions from other components
  (e.g. For **METplus wrappers**, **update_version.rst**,
  **create_release_extra.rst**, etc.). In this case, the instructions
  that are specific to that component are located in a subdirectory
  of *release_steps*.  For example, files that are specific to
  METplus wrappers are located in *release_steps/metplus*, files
  that are specific to METcalcpy are located in
  *release_steps/metcalcpy*.

* The file for each individual step (e.g. **open_release_issue.rst**,
  **update_version.rst**, etc.) contains the instructions for
  completing that step for the release.  
    

Verification Datasets Guide:
----------------------------

* To add/modify any relevant datasets in an attempt to create a
  centralized catalog of verification datasets to provide the model
  verification community with relevant "truth" datasets. See the
  `Verification Datasets Guide Overview <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Verification_Datasets/overview.html>`_
  for more information. 

.. _read-the-docs:

Read the Docs METplus Documentation
===================================

The METplus components use `Read the Docs <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_ to
build and display the documentation. Read the Docs simplifies the
documentation process by building, versioning, and hosting the documentation.

Read the Docs supports multiple versions for each repository. For the METplus
components, the "latest" version will point to the latest official (stable)
release. The "develop" or "development" version will point to the most up to
date development code. There may also be other previous versions of the
software available in the version selector menu, which is accessible by
clicking in the bottom left corner of the documentation pages.

Automation rules allow project maintainers to automate actions on new branches
and tags on repositories.  For the METplus components, documentation is
automatically built by Read the Docs when a new tag is created and when a
branch is created with the prefix:

  * feature (e.g. feature_836_rtd_doc)
    
  * bugfix (e.g. bugfix_1716_develop_perc_thresh)

The documentation of these "versions" are automatically hidden, however, the
documentation can be accessed by directly modifying the URL. For example, to
view "feature_836_rtd_doc" for the METplus repository the URL would be:

  *https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/feature_836_rtd_doc*

  (Note that this link is not valid as this branch does not currently exist,
  however contributors can replace the "*feature_836_rtd_doc*" with the
  appropriate branch name.)
  
The URL branch name will be lowercase regardless of the actual branch
letter casing,
i.e. "*feature_836_RTD_Doc*" branch would be accessed by the
above-mentioned URL.
  
Read the Docs will automatically delete the documentation for a feature
branch and a bugfix branch when the branch is deleted.

Documentation for each METplus component can be found at the links below:

* `METplus <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `MET <https://met.readthedocs.io/>`_  
* `METcalcpy <https://metcalcpy.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METdataio <https://metdataio.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METexpress <https://metexpress.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METplotpy <https://metplotpy.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METviewer <https://metviewer.readthedocs.io/>`_


Building Sphinx Documentation Manually
======================================

Documentation does not have to be built manually as it is automatically
generated by Read The Docs.  See the
:ref:`Read the Docs section <read-the-docs>` for further information.
However, contributors can still build the documentation manually if
desired.

.. note::
   
  It is assumed that the web browser application and METplus
  source code are located on the same computer/host.

All the sphinx modules (listed earlier) need to be present in order to
generate the HTML content that comprises the documentation.
From the command line, change to the *METplus/docs* directory and
enter the following:

.. code-block:: none

	./build_docs.py

This script does the following:

* Builds the Sphinx documentation
* Builds the doxygen documentation
* Removes unwanted text from use case documentation
* Copies doxygen files into* _build/html* for easy deployment
* Creates symbolic links under Users_Guide to the directories under
  'generated' to preserve old URL paths

The html files that are created can be found in the *METplus/docs/_build/html*
directory.  The web browser can point to this directory by entering
the following in the web browser's navigation bar:

   *file:///<path-to>/METplus/docs/_build/html/index.html*

Where <path-to> is the full file path leading to the METplus source code. This
will direct to the home page of the documentation.  Click on the links to
navigate to the desired information.

Relevant Documentation for Contributors
=======================================

The Doxygen tool is employed to create documentation from the source code.
This documentation is useful in generating details about the METplus wrapper
API (Application Programming Interface).
This is a useful reference for contributors to peruse prior to creating
new METplus wrappers.
The Doxygen files located in the */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen* directory
do **NOT** need to be modified and should not be modified.


For more information about Doxygen, please refer to this
`Doxygen web page <http://doxygen.nl/>`_.

`Download and install Doxygen <http://doxygen.nl/download.html>`_
to create this documentation.

**Note**: Doxygen version 1.8.9.1 or higher is required to create the
documentation for the METplus wrappers.

Create the Doxygen documentation by performing the following:

* Ensure that the user is working with Python 3.6 (minimum).
* cd to the */path/to/METplus/sorc* directory, where */path/to* is the
  file path where the METplus source code is installed.
* At the command line, enter the following:

  .. code-block:: none
		  
       make clean
       make doc
	  
The first command cleans up any existing documentation, and the second
generates new documentation based on the current source code.

The HTML files are generated in the */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen/html*
directory, which can be viewed in the local browser. The file corresponding
to the home page is */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen/html/index.html*.

Useful information can be found under the *Packages*, *Classes*, and
*Python Files* tabs located at the top of the home page.

Commit message:

adding a dividing line to the chapters and sections

docs/Contributors_Guide/documentation.rst, after:

*************
Documentation
*************

Viewing METplus documentation
=============================

The METplus documentation (beginning with version 3.0) is available
`online <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/>`_.


Doxygen Source Code Documentation
=================================

The source code documentation is coming soon.


Documentation Overview and Conventions
======================================

The majority of the documentation is created using the Sphinx documentation
generator tool, which was originally created for Python documentation.
The documentation is created using
`reStructuredText (rst) <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_.
This link provides a brief introduction to reST concepts and syntax, 
intended to give authors enough information to create and modify the 
documents productively. We follow the conventions outlines in the 
link, along with some additional METplus Component specific conventions:

Defining Chapters and Sections
------------------------------

Chapter and section headers are created by underlining 
the section title with one of the below punctuation characters.
This must be EXACTLY as long as the text line or there will be a Github error message:

Here is an example of a chapter title::

  *************
  Chapter Title
  *************
  

Include one line of whitespace below the last line of asterisks or it won't work.

Below is the convention that is used in the Python Developer’s Guide
and METplus::
  
  * with overline, for chapters
  = for sections
  - for subsections (this is a dash, not an underline.)
  ^ for subsubsections
  " for paragraphs (as of yet, this isn't used in the METplus documentation.)
  # with overline, for parts. This can be used for hidden comments in the code.

If an underline is used with no text above or below it, 
this will create a thin dividing line in the document.
Example::

  ___________________

It will look like this on the web:

_________________


Items to Bold
-------------

  * To make text bold use 2 asterisks before and after the bold section.
    Example::  
    
      **Bolded text** 
      
  * It will look like this on the web:  **Bolded text**
  * Variables (e.g. **MET_INSTALL_DIR, INPUT_BASE, METCALCPY_HOME**, etc.)
  * Filenames (**line_defaults.yaml, contour_defaults.yaml, defaults.conf**, etc.)

Items in Italics
----------------

  * To italicize text use 1 asterisk before and after the italics section.
    Example::
      
      *Italicized text* 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: *Italicized text*
  * Paths and Directories are italicized.
  * If it is a full path and a file name, use italics. 
    This was used a lot in METplotpy, 
    Example: *$METPLOTPY_SOURCE/METplotpy/test/ens_ss/ens_ss.data* 
  * Italics for values to options.
  
Math equations
--------------
  * use :math:\mathbf
  * Then put what is needed in bolded brackets.
    Example::  
    
      :math:\mathbf **1, 2, 3, 4, ...** :math:`mathbf{2^{n-1}}` 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: **1, 2, 3, 4, ...** :math:`mathbf{2^{n-1}}`
  * `Referencing math equations <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/domains.html#role-math-numref>`_.

Symbols
-------

  * The below will create a Delta triangle symbol:
    Eample:: 
    
      :math:`Delta` 
      
  * It will look like this on the web: :math:`\Delta`

Command Line Command
--------------------

For including commands for a command line, use the “literal block” syntax.
Indent the line two spaces with two colons at the end of the sentence"::", 
one line of white space below that,
two indented spaces, "Write my command here" then one more line of
white space. Example::

  Some text::

    Write my command here
    
    
It will look like this on the web (Please note, this will remove one
of the 2 colons):

  Some text::
  
    Write my command here

Then continue writing on this line. Note there needs to be one line of 
whitespace above and below the command.

Here is some more information on 
`literal blocks <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#literal-blocks>`_

Creating Carriage Returns and New Lines
---------------------------------------

RST does not obey carriage returns. To get text to appear on 
consecutive lines with no whitespace between, use the 
“line block” syntax, which is to prepend each line with 
the “|” symbol. Example::

  This text will
  Be
  Rendered
  All on a single
  Line like this

It will look like this on the web: 
This text will Be Rendered All on a single Line like this

To keep the text on separate lines, use the "|" with a
space at the beginning of each new line.  Example::

  One line of blank space above and below text 
  
  | This text will
  | Be
  | Rendered
  | On separate lines
  | Like this

It will look like this on the web:

  | This text will
  | Be
  | Rendered
  | On separate lines
  | Like this

Here is some more information on `line blocks <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#line-blocks>`_.

Links
-----

Linking to another Section
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The original section being linked to will need an 
".. _pick_a_reference_name" so it can be referenced
in the next section.  Please change the text to something
appropriate.  No spaces are allowed. Example::

  .. _reference_orig_name:
         must have blank line here
  Original Name Section
  ---------------------

To add this link somewhere else use "\:ref:\`reference_orig_name`". 
Please use backticks and note that the first underscore isn't used
in the reference.
Example::

  :ref:`reference_orig_name`

Or to have the (table, figure etc) number used numref will work.
Example::

  :numref:`reference_orig_name`

Here is some more information on 
`Links <https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html>`_

If the link is in another chapter or document, use the example below.
Please note, there is no space between text and the less than symbol "<".
Example:

  :ref:`Text to show up<reference_orig_name>`  LISA fix this, nothing shows up because there is nothing to link to.

Linking to METplus Use Cases (Python code)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Linking to METplus Use Cases must be done with a web link.  
Since the generated html file is from a python script, 
the “\:ref:” command in sphinx can’t be used. 
This example will use this METplus Use Case:
https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html#sphx-glr-generated-met-tool-wrapper-statanalysis-statanalysis-py.  
The full web address is being shown above so it can be edited below.
To make sure the web address is correct:

  * This example will be called "TCStat: Basic Use Case"
  * Remove this front portion from the web address before 
    “generated”: https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest
  * Put a “../” in front of “generated”
  * Also remove anything after “#”.  In this case:  
    #sphx-glr-generated-met-tool-wrapper-statanalysis-statanalysis-py
  * The web link should look like this example::

    `TCStat: Basic Use Case <../generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html>`_
  * It will look like this on the web page:
    `TCStat: Basic Use Case <../generated/met_tool_wrapper/StatAnalysis/StatAnalysis.html>`_

Examples of the links can be seen in this 
`table <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Users_Guide/overview.html#metplus-components-python-requirements>`_ 
in the far right column.


Linking to a table
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is similar to linking to another section.
Example::

  .. _table_name_1:
         (must have blank line here)
  .. list-table:: table name one

Then to reference this table::

  :ref:`table_name_1`
  
This will link to the table.

The web link should look like this: LISA UPDATE THIS

Linking to a variable in the Glossary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this case, "\:term:" is used. This lets Sphinx know
to look for the link in the glossary. Example::

  :term:`VARIABLE_NAME_HERE`

This will link directly to the glossary. Here is some more information on 
`links to a glossary <https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/glossary.html#link-a-term-to-its-a-glossary-entry>`_.

Links to External Web Pages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To link to an external web page, use the following syntax:
`Link text <link_URL>`_  
Example::

  `DTC <https://dtcenter.org/>`_

The web link should look like this: `DTC <https://dtcenter.org/>`_

The link can also be separated from the the target definition. 
Example::

  Get the latest news at `DTC`_.
  .. _DTC: https://dtcenter.org

The web link should look like this:
Get the latest news at `DTC`_.

Sphinx modules
--------------

The following Sphinx modules are required to generate the necessary
documentation:

  * sphinx-gallery==0.11.1
  * sphinx==5.3.0
  * sphinx-rtd-theme==1.2.0
  * sphinx-design==0.3.0

Which versions are being used by the current METplus release can be viewed
by looking at either *METplus/environment.yml* or *METplus/docs/requirements.txt*.  
If the desire is to replicate all the
packages employed by METplus, please refer to :numref:`conda_env` of the
Contributor's Guide.


Description of Documentation Directories
========================================

Core documentation is divided into four sections: User's Guide, Contributor's
Guide, Release Guide, and Verification Datasets Guide all of which reside
under the *METplus/docs* directory and contain files ending in .rst.

Documentation for the use cases is found in the following directories:

* *METplus/docs/use_cases/met_tool_wrapper*

  * This directory contains documentation pertaining to use cases that use
    one MET *tool/METplus* wrapper.

* *METplus/docs/use_cases/model_applications*
	
  * This directory contains documentation pertaining to use cases that are
    based on model data, and utilize more than one MET *tool/METplus*
    wrapper.

Please refer to the :ref:`Document New Use Case <use_case_documentation>`
section for more information on documenting a new use case.


Adding New Documentation
========================

To determine where to add new documentation:

* The User's Guide for any instructions or details that will enable a user
  to run/use the use case and/or new code.

* The Contributor's Guide for instructions on creating/constructing new
  code.

* The Release Guide for instructions for creating software releases for any
  METplus component, including official, bugfix, and development releases.

* The Verification Datasets Guide for any relevant "truth" datasets, including
  data from satellite platforms (geostationary and polar orbiting), gridded
  analyses (global and regional), station or point-based datasets (global and
  regional), and radar networks.


User's Guide:
-------------
  
* To add/modify any content that affects METplus users.
* Modify any of the affected sections from the
  *METplus/docs/Users_Guide* directory:
  
  * **glossary.rst** (Glossary)
  * **references.rst** (Reference)
  * **configuration.rst** (Configuration)
  * **usecases.rst** (Use cases)
  * **wrappers.rst** (METplus wrappers)

Contributor's Guide:
--------------------
  
* To add/modify any content that affects METplus contributors.
* Modify any of the affected sections from the
  *METplus/docs/Contributors_Guide* directory:
  
  * **add_use_case.rst** (How to add new use cases)
  * **basic_components.rst** (The basic components of a METplus wrapper)
  * **coding_standards.rst** (The coding standards currently in use)
  * **conda_env.rst**  (How to set up the conda environment for
    running METplus)
  * **continuous_integration.rst** (How to set up a continuous integration
    workflow)
  * **create_wrapper.rst** (How to create a new METplus wrapper)
  * **deprecation.rst** (What to do to deprecate a variable)
  * **documentation.rst** (Describing the documentation process and files)
  * **github_workflow.rst** (A description of how releases are made,
    how to to obtain source code from the GitHub repository)
  * **index.rst** (The page that shows all the 'chapters/sections'
    of the Contributor's Guide)
  * **testing.rst** (A description of how to set up testing the
    wrapper code)

Release Guide:
--------------

* To add/modify the instructions for creating software releases for
  any METplus component, including official, bugfix, and development
  releases.

* Each METplus component has a top level file (e.g. **metplus.rst**)
  which simply contains references to files for each of the
  releases.  For example, **metplus.rst** contains references to:
    
  * metplus_official.
  * metplus_bugfix.
  * metplus_development.

* Each release file (e.g. **metplus_official.rst**, **metplus_bugfix.rst**,
  **metplus_development.rst**) contains, at a minimum, a replacement
  value for the projectRepo variable and include
  statements for each release step.  These individual steps
  (e.g. **open_release_issue.rst**, **clone_project_repository.rst**, etc.)
  may be common to multiple METplus components.  These common steps
  are located in the *release_steps* directory.  However, a METplus
  component may have different instructions from other components
  (e.g. For **METplus wrappers**, **update_version.rst**,
  **create_release_extra.rst**, etc.). In this case, the instructions
  that are specific to that component are located in a subdirectory
  of *release_steps*.  For example, files that are specific to
  METplus wrappers are located in *release_steps/metplus*, files
  that are specific to METcalcpy are located in
  *release_steps/metcalcpy*.

* The file for each individual step (e.g. **open_release_issue.rst**,
  **update_version.rst**, etc.) contains the instructions for
  completing that step for the release.  
    

Verification Datasets Guide:
----------------------------

* To add/modify any relevant datasets in an attempt to create a
  centralized catalog of verification datasets to provide the model
  verification community with relevant "truth" datasets. See the
  `Verification Datasets Guide Overview <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Verification_Datasets/overview.html>`_
  for more information. 

.. _read-the-docs:

Read the Docs METplus Documentation
===================================

The METplus components use `Read the Docs <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_ to
build and display the documentation. Read the Docs simplifies the
documentation process by building, versioning, and hosting the documentation.

Read the Docs supports multiple versions for each repository. For the METplus
components, the "latest" version will point to the latest official (stable)
release. The "develop" or "development" version will point to the most up to
date development code. There may also be other previous versions of the
software available in the version selector menu, which is accessible by
clicking in the bottom left corner of the documentation pages.

Automation rules allow project maintainers to automate actions on new branches
and tags on repositories.  For the METplus components, documentation is
automatically built by Read the Docs when a new tag is created and when a
branch is created with the prefix:

  * feature (e.g. feature_836_rtd_doc)
    
  * bugfix (e.g. bugfix_1716_develop_perc_thresh)

The documentation of these "versions" are automatically hidden, however, the
documentation can be accessed by directly modifying the URL. For example, to
view "feature_836_rtd_doc" for the METplus repository the URL would be:

  *https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/feature_836_rtd_doc*

  (Note that this link is not valid as this branch does not currently exist,
  however contributors can replace the "*feature_836_rtd_doc*" with the
  appropriate branch name.)
  
The URL branch name will be lowercase regardless of the actual branch
letter casing,
i.e. "*feature_836_RTD_Doc*" branch would be accessed by the
above-mentioned URL.
  
Read the Docs will automatically delete the documentation for a feature
branch and a bugfix branch when the branch is deleted.

Documentation for each METplus component can be found at the links below:

* `METplus <https://metplus.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `MET <https://met.readthedocs.io/>`_  
* `METcalcpy <https://metcalcpy.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METdataio <https://metdataio.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METexpress <https://metexpress.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METplotpy <https://metplotpy.readthedocs.io/>`_
* `METviewer <https://metviewer.readthedocs.io/>`_


Building Sphinx Documentation Manually
======================================

Documentation does not have to be built manually as it is automatically
generated by Read The Docs.  See the
:ref:`Read the Docs section <read-the-docs>` for further information.
However, contributors can still build the documentation manually if
desired.

.. note::
   
  It is assumed that the web browser application and METplus
  source code are located on the same computer/host.

All the sphinx modules (listed earlier) need to be present in order to
generate the HTML content that comprises the documentation.
From the command line, change to the *METplus/docs* directory and
enter the following:

.. code-block:: none

	./build_docs.py

This script does the following:

* Builds the Sphinx documentation
* Builds the doxygen documentation
* Removes unwanted text from use case documentation
* Copies doxygen files into* _build/html* for easy deployment
* Creates symbolic links under Users_Guide to the directories under
  'generated' to preserve old URL paths

The html files that are created can be found in the *METplus/docs/_build/html*
directory.  The web browser can point to this directory by entering
the following in the web browser's navigation bar:

   *file:///<path-to>/METplus/docs/_build/html/index.html*

Where <path-to> is the full file path leading to the METplus source code. This
will direct to the home page of the documentation.  Click on the links to
navigate to the desired information.

Relevant Documentation for Contributors
=======================================

The Doxygen tool is employed to create documentation from the source code.
This documentation is useful in generating details about the METplus wrapper
API (Application Programming Interface).
This is a useful reference for contributors to peruse prior to creating
new METplus wrappers.
The Doxygen files located in the */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen* directory
do **NOT** need to be modified and should not be modified.


For more information about Doxygen, please refer to this
`Doxygen web page <http://doxygen.nl/>`_.

`Download and install Doxygen <http://doxygen.nl/download.html>`_
to create this documentation.

**Note**: Doxygen version 1.8.9.1 or higher is required to create the
documentation for the METplus wrappers.

Create the Doxygen documentation by performing the following:

* Ensure that the user is working with Python 3.6 (minimum).
* cd to the */path/to/METplus/sorc* directory, where */path/to* is the
  file path where the METplus source code is installed.
* At the command line, enter the following:

  .. code-block:: none
		  
       make clean
       make doc
	  
The first command cleans up any existing documentation, and the second
generates new documentation based on the current source code.

The HTML files are generated in the */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen/html*
directory, which can be viewed in the local browser. The file corresponding
to the home page is */path/to/METplus/docs/doxygen/html/index.html*.

Useful information can be found under the *Packages*, *Classes*, and
*Python Files* tabs located at the top of the home page.
